So a few years ago, I had to make a work trip to Stockholm. And because it was the school holidays, I needed to take my two kids along with me. And at the time they were 14 and 12. Anyway, my local colleagues, needless to say, were really very supportive. And in fact, knowing that I do research on language and social class, they'd also clearly enjoyed arranging to put us into a hotel belonging by a large Swedish chain called Elite Hotels.

So on the day that we arrived, we checked in and then we made our way straight up to our room. But as soon as we crossed the threshold, my oldest son declared with genuine frustration, "But this isn't elite."

And I was a little bit surprised, but also kind of really curious to know exactly what he meant. So I sort of pressed him, and he quickly explained to me that the room was just not big enough to be elite.

So in that moment, I realized that my son had already learned two really important lessons about everyday language. First, that words are very influential, but their meaning can often be slippery. And second, that the language of superiority and comparison can lead to disappointment.

But it's tough. Nowadays we're bombarded with messages about excellence, distinction and success, and we hear voices telling us you should be a top student, or a winner, or a leader, or preferably all three.

And it's this that's started me to think a little bit more about what's going on here. How do we manage this? Because all of this leads to a profound sense of what the philosopher Alain de Botton has called status anxiety. And for me, this is a kind of anxiety that arises through our constant worry about not being good enough, or always needing to be someone better, or to have something better.

But the reality is this. Not everyone can be a top student. Not everyone can be a winner, and not everyone can be a leader. By the simple law of averages, most of us have to live a life more ordinary.

Well, it's for this reason that I've started to rethink or perhaps even reclaim the notion of mediocrity. And I've even been challenging myself to consider the possibility of embracing mediocrity.

Now, obviously, I understand that mediocrity has a bad reputation with sort of connotations like average quality or not very good. But the sociolinguist in me insists on digging just a little bit deeper, maybe listening to some of the word's origins and unearthing some of its other meaning potentials.

In actual fact, the word mediocre has its roots in the Indo-European "medial," meaning "middle." So essentially then, mediocrity is just about existing between two extremes, hence middling or average or otherwise unexceptional or ordinary.
